### 406-00 Intro
Moore's Law:
Hardware capabilities doubles every ~18 months.

Ratio of compiler-optimized programs to non-optimized programs is about 5-6x in typical real-world applications.

- Software is **intangible**:
	- Size, effort and progress is difficult to estimate.
- No physical limitations exist
- Software is **malleable**, always possible to think of an application twice as complex as the current one.
- Software is **highly independent**: small error can bring everything down.
- "Appetite comes with eating": People get more ideas when they see a half-baked product, also, the environment may change without warning.
- Software is also based on lots of human creative labour.

Effective when they perform according to specifications.
Efficient when they do it well and provide value for money.

Software engineering is the application of engineering practices to software development.

Software suffers from technical issues and human issues.

### 406-01 Tasks (And stakeholders)
Note stakeholders includes opponents to a project.

##### System vs. Application Software
**System software** includes OSs and drivers
- Typically provided by manufacturer of hardware or their trusted partners
**Applications**: whatever you buy or build in order to do your job and/or have fun
- Built by everybody else and increasingly developed as free and open-source
**Utilities**: Fall between the above two. (Web browser, SSH, office suite)

Tasks of design AND requirements are needed

"Did we build the software exactly in accordance with the design and does the design correspond to the requirements?" etc.

**Architectural Design**:
- High-level model of a thing which:
	- Describes critical aspects of the thing
	- Is understandable to all (at least many) of the stakeholders
	- Allows evaluation of the thing's properties before it is built
	- Provides well understood tools and techniques for constructing the thing from its blueprint
Key concept is *abstraction* (omitting unnecessary details)

**Database design**:
- Lots of data to be stored (permanent or semi-permanent)
- Lots of databases, data models, interfaces, etc.
- Relational (SQL-based, mostly) for cases where you need the speed AND your data model does not change much (banks, insurance)
- Post-relational (NoSQL, …) where you need flexibility and ever-changing structure (like Facebook)

**Detailed Design**
- Design begins with a set of requirements and maybe an architecture
- Design done to provide a blueprint for coding
- "Drills down to some slightly deeper level" of how we're going to do this
- High level design (where modules are designed) and detailed design (logic for each module to some degree of detail)
- If design is correct, it satisfies all the requirements and is consistent with architecture.
- Object-oriented design has the advantage of using similar concepts throughout

**Documentation**
- Modern software is too much to hold in mind
- Problems multiply when multiple people involved
- Documentation aims to facilitate understanding between people involved and bridge the gap between different phases of development

**Feasibility Study**
- After the idea, can we afford this? Is it technically possible?
- What other costs will this incur? Will users be happy? etc.

**Maintenance**:
- Activities that aim to keep the application operational after deployment
	- Corrective maintenance (Error fixing)
	- Adaptive maintenance (adding functionality)
	- Perfective maintenance (making the software run better/faster without functionality change)
- Documentation helps here a lot!

**Production** (deployment)
- Deployment and subsequent operations support have a number of challenges of their own.
- Once you've finished system integration and testing,
	- Install on some? all? locations
	- Migrate the data 
	- Train users
	- Observe users and system to detect problems and fix as soon as possible

**Programming**
- Implement the design in best possible manner using the chosen programming language(s) and suitable tools
- Coding affects testing and maintenance - as testing and maintenance costs are high, aim of coding activity should be to write code that reduces them.
- Important to make code clear, understandable, flexible and easy to extend. And reduce the subsequent cost of testing and maintenance.

**Project Management**
- Every project must be managed, the manger spans all other activities from inception to retirement.
- Scope, time, quality, cost management

**Requirements Engineering**:
- Create a complete, consistent, verifiable, formal expression of user requirements.
- Requirements document enables shared understanding between different stakeholders such as customers, users (operators), developers, development managers.

**Security Engineering**
- Security is the ability of software to function properly and securely under malicious attack
- Sorta like a type of requirements but a bit different. Different from functional requirements
	- When we specify functional correctness, we can supply inputs and correct outputs and prove software adheres to functional requirements.
	- But with security, we want software to behave *reasonably* under circumstances we can't anticipate. ("Robustness")
	- As a result, we can never hope to *Fully* specify security requirements in the manner which is possible with functional requirements.

**System integration**
- System you're making is never pure software, it needs hardware to run on, and that's all part of a bigger system in a way.
- Integration is about testing the *WHOLE* thing together and see if parts fit.

**UI Design**
- We want systems to be used efficiently by untrained (or lightly trained) personnel
- Lack of formal techniques to express functionality and success is determined by whether users like it or not (hard to predict)

**Validation**
- Part of quality assurance (QA) is making sure software meets needs of users.
- "Are we building the right product?"
- *Static verification*: Design reviews, formal and informal inspections
- *Dynamic Verification*: testing (need operational system)

Summarize:
1. Feasibility Study
2. Requirements collection/analysis/formalization
3. Design (architecture/module/low level)
4. Testing
5. User Training & Deployment
6. Maintenance
7. Retirement

**Project-based and product-based software engineering are different things**

Custom software systems are important for businesses (especially large)
1. generate requirements
2. Implement by **software projects**

Modern software systems are implemented in a different cycle 
1. Opportunity
2. Inspires product features
3. Implement by **software product**

