## Agile Development: A Gentle Protocol

Think of previous slideshow, process of developing software. But very module

#### Waterfall
Proposed in early 70's, inspired by assembly line manufacturing process. Each step is completed in its entirety before going on to the next one.
1. Requirements analysis
2. Design
3. Code
4. Integration
5. Test
6. Deploy
While this may be "natural" and widely used, it suffers from many problems.

| Pros                                                                                                                                             | Cons                                                                                                               |
| ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Measurable progress; predictable (good for upper management)                                                                                     | Large amount of paperwork up front (up until around the code step) Little results until near the end.              |
| Experience applying steps in past projects can be used in estimating duration of "similar" steps in future projects                              | Technology problems often not encountered until integration                                                        |
| Waterfall model may work well in an environment that is well understood and stable. (Developing a project very similar to something done before) | Changes become increasingly costly as we advance through phases.                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                                  | Problems that require backing up one or two phases can be very costly. (Also changing requirements is a nightmare) |
**Code Decay**: refers to the phenomenon of codebases when there are many patches and the whole thing becomes a mess and hard to maintain.

### Agile Methodologies
- In recent 10-15 years, a number of approaches have been proposed to address the problems in software development.
- Development process must be robust against changing systems and requirements (which may be vague).
- Technology innovations (object-oriented approach, Java, UML, design patterns, etc.) haven't addressed these problems (cons of the waterfall model). Agile methods are about the human side, not technology.
Values:
- Individuals and interactions over processes and tools
- Working software over comprehensive documentation
- Customer collaboration over contract negotiation
- Responding to change over following a plan.
  "Values in both, the left are valued more"
##### Customer's Bill of Rights
- Set objectives for the project and have them followed
- To know how long the software project will take and how much it will cost
- To decide which features are in and which are out of the software
- To know the project's status at any time during the development
- To make reasonable changes to requirements throughout the course of the project and to know the costs of making these changes
- To be apprised regularly of the risks that could affect cost, schedule of quality
- To have ready access to project deliverables throughout the project.

##### Developer's Bill of Rights
- To know the project objectives and to be able to clarify priorities.
- To know in detail the project she is supposed to build
- To have access to the customer, manager, marketer, or any other person responsible for the functionality
- To work each phase of the project in a technically responsible way
- To approve effort and schedule estimates for any work that she will be asked to perform
- To have the project's status reported accurately to customers and upper management
- To work in a productive environment free from frequent (and unnecessary) interruptions

**The *essence* of agile:** fast reaction and small incremental releases.
- Deliver *real business value* on a very short cycle
	- Business valued delivered sooner
	- Increased customer confidence
	- Sense of accomplishment in the development team
	- Reduced risk for the project
	- Rapid feedback from the customers
	- Rapid reaction to any changes in the requirements

Note that agile is about *management practices* NOT software *development methodology*
Agile is good at preventing the issue of a miscommunication between customer and developer early on, but not figuring out until very late.

Every project has **four "control" variables**:
- **Scope**: how much to be done
- **Resources**: how many people are available
- **Time**: when is it done
- **Quality**: how good and how well tested will it be.

There's of course an interdependence between these variables. 
They also must be **visible**: if stakeholders can see the variables, they can choose which ones to control.
"Scope" is the most important of the four control variables; we have the most control over it. By adjusting project scope based on the other variables, we increase our chances of success.

There are a number of methodologies: XP, Scrum, Adaptive Software Development, Crystal Methodologies, etc.  XP is very visible, but Scrum is likely the most popular.

#### Scrum
Similar to waterfall, except the project is divided into fixed- or variable size iterations or Sprints. Each sprint features a complete development cycle
1. Evaluation/Prioritization
2. Detailed requirements
3. Design and Analysis
4. Implementation and Development Testing
5. QA/Acceptance Testing
6. Deployment (and loop back to the top)
"Scrum sprints" are "complete development" but for a limited number of requirements or features. Their short duration means that:
- Any changes in requirements can be dealt with quickly, without restarting everything
- Estimates will be much more accurate due to reduced time horizon
- Development team can deliver a working increment after each sprint.
Also, sprints may be undertaken in parallel in order to increase productivity.