
Continuing on Software Crisis...
Imperative paradigm drawback:
- Difficult to scale up (hard to keep track of high number of variables) both in code size and parallelism.
C (imperative) dominates in *embedded systems* ("A computer that doesn't behave like a computer" e.g. thermostat: it's technically a computer, but its not general purpose)
#### Key Ideas of Imperative Language Paradigm
- **Sequential Execution**
	- Emphasis on explicit control flow (control structures)
	- Lots of syntax dedicated to looping (iteration) and selection/branching
- **Mutable State**
- Adding procedures/functions/subroutines can improve scalability

#### Alternative Paradigms
- **Procedural Programming**:
	- State changes are localized (partially or entirely) to *procedures* (such as functions/subroutines)
	- This makes imperative programs FAR more readable and simplifies coding.
	- "If a function is logically correct, we never worry about it again"
	- Ideally, we can tell what a procedure does just by its name and parameters
- **Functional Programming**:
	- Avoid mutable data, changing state,
	- Declarative rather than imperative (tell the program where to go, not how to get there)
- **Object Oriented Programming**
	- In "Pure" OO languages, even scalar values and operators are objects.
	- Java/C++ and others support OOP to greater or lesser degrees. (The existence of primitives means it's NOT pure)

#### Class-Based OOP
We say objects have ***identity***; unique instances of the same class can exist simultaneously.

*Primitives* such as integers have a state but no *associated behaviour* nor *associated methods*.
Note how Java has the `int` primitive and the `Integer` class.

Programs are built up of objects that communicate with each other.
- Objects combine attributes (data, variables) and procedures (methods) 
### Syntax vs Semantics

| Syntax                                         | Semantics                                                                                         |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Externally visible representation of a program | Logic of the program; the meaning                                                                 |
| Based on sequence of characters                | Can be understood by showing relationship between input and output                                |
| "Does it compile?" Throw a syntax error?       | Clear or unclear meaning in code.                                                                 |
|                                                | Code that accomplishes the same thing may be semantically identically despite syntax differences. |
## Smalltalk
- Created by Alan Kay (Who coined the term Object Oriented Programming, 1966/67)
- First purely object-oriented language
Big idea:
- Use encapsulated *mini-computers* in software.
- Communicate via message passing, rather than direct data sharing
- Each *mini-computer* has its own isolated state.
- Inspired by biology, cellular communication.

Essential ingredients of OOP are:
1. Message Passing
2. Encapsulation
3. Dynamic Binding

"Smalltalk" typically refers to Smalltalk-80

##### Overview:
- **No primitives**: EVERYTHING is an object
- Control Structures are methods, control flow implemented via *blocks* and *message passing*
- *Message passing is central*.
- Each class is an instance of the metaclass of that object.
- Each metaclass is an instance of a class called **Metaclass**

A Smalltalk object can do *exactly three things*:
1. **Hold state** (assignment)
2. **Receive a *message*** (from itself or another object)
	- Upon receiving a message, search class for appropriate method
	- Not found? Check superclass, repeat until found or we reach class "Object", then throw exception
3. **Send a *message*** (to itself or another object)

Nifty Pharo Cheat Sheet: https://files.pharo.org/media/pharoCheatSheet.pdf 

`Transcript show: 'Hello, World!'.`
- `Transcript` is the object
- `show` is the message
- `'Hello, World!'` is the argument

`x := 16 sqrt.`
Message `sqrt` is sent to the object `16`. `16` is an instance of the `SmallInteger` class

Semi-colons allows us to cascade multiple messages to an object. e.g.
`Transcript show: x; cr.`
`cr` is **Carriage Return** (newline)
```Smalltalk
x := 16 sqrt.
Transcript show: x; cr.
```

#### Three Kinds of messages:
1. **Unary** such as `sqrt` are any message without arguments.
2. **Binary**
	e.g. `x := 3 + 4.`, `+` is the message passed to `3` with argument `4`
3. **Keyword** can contain any number of arguments, they *always include a colon*
	e.g. `x := 2 raisedTo: 4.`, `2` is the receiving object, `raisedTo`is the message, with argument `4`

##### Multiple Arguments (and Interleaving)

```Smalltalk
x := 'Hello' indexOf: $o startingAt: 2.
```
Actual message is `indexOf:startingAt`. The arguments are interleaved
Semantically identical Java syntax:
```Java
x = "Hello".indexOf('o',2);
```


We need parentheses to enforce precedence: `Transcript show: 5 raisedTo: 2.`
Pharo will send `show:raisedTo:` message to Transcript with arguments 5 and 2, this is an error. So, we will:
```Smalltalk
Transcript show: (5 raisedTo: 2). "This works!"
```

You can send any message to any object, if object doesn't know what to do with the message, a run-time error occurs.

### Some Syntax:
- Double quotes for comments
- Single quotes for strings

###### Arrays
```Smalltalk
arrInts := #(1 2 3 4 5). "is an array of integers"
heteroArr := #(1 2.0 'hello' #('world')). "arrays are heterogeneous" 
"'Dynamic' array of variables:"
a := 2. b := 4. c := 6. d:= 8. e := 10.
arr := {a . b. c. d. e}.
"Indexing (at):"
Transcript show: (arrInts at: 3); cr.
```

The math is pretty intuitive
Note that Smalltalk has a fraction type!
**Division**:
Integer and integer returns integer or fraction
Integer and double returns double
Can explicitly do division `asInteger`

Operator/Message Precedence:
1. Unary
2. Binary
3. Keyword
Then, just left to right, if you want otherwise, USE BRACKETS

Some interesting operatiors:

| Syntax    | Meaning          |
| --------- | ---------------- |
| `//`      | Integer division |
| `\\`      | Remainder        |
| sqrt      | Root             |
| raisedTo: | Exponentiation   |
### \#Symbols 
`#` followed by a **string literal**
`#'aSymbol'` same as `#aSymbol` (single (string) quotes are implied)
`#'symbol one'` but quotes are needed here!
Two identical strings can exist as two *separate* objects
For every *unique* symbol value, there can be only *one* object.

```Smalltalk
| a b x y | "Used to declare temporary variables within a method or block"

a := 'Hello'.
b := 'Hel,lo'. "Concatenated strings"
Transcript show: a = b; cr. "true"
Transcript show: a == b; cr. "false"

x := #Hello.
y := (#Hel,#lo) asSymbol.

```
#CBH
`=` checks for value
`==` checks for the same object

What's the point of using symbols?
Checking for equal string value involves comparing individual characters. This takes Linear time.
Checking if two variables reference the same object is constant time (single integer comparison between addresses).
With symbols, if they reference different objects they have different values.

***MESSAGES ARE SYMBOLS***
So, checking messages is real fast, as they are symbols not strings (that must be compared character by character)

Next class, Blocks and Control flow...