For 'if's, 'loop's, programmer-defined functions, etc., there are 25 "special forms" in *Lisp*

# Special Forms
Most common special forms:
`(QUOTEv)` aka `'v` where `v` is any lisp form. Return `v` as data without evaluating it.
`(quote (+ 2 3)) ; ==> (+ 2 3)` (a list containing three items +, 2 and 3)

`(AND a1, ... an)` and `(OR a1, ... an)` 
These work left to right. `AND` returns `nil` if any of the forms evaluate to `nil`
For `OR`, as soon as a form does not evaluate to `nil`, this is what is returned (doesn't worry about what's left)

Note that only `nil` and `()` (an empty list) is considered false; everything else is true


### Conditionals
`(IF testForm thenForm elseForm)`
"*elseForm*" is optional! - the form will be evaluated to `nil` if testForm is `nil` and there is no *elseForm*

```Lisp
(if (and 0 1 nil (+ 3 4) 3) ;All in here is the 'testForm'
	3 
	10) ; ==> 10
```

#### WHEN & UNLESS
`WHEN` is like an `if` statement without an *elseForm* and can run a sequence of forms. If *testForm* of when is *nil*, the form evaluates to *nil*.

`UNLESS`: `(unless test x y)` == `(if (not test) (progn x y)` where `progn` evaluates forms sequentially

### Lambda
like python! Is used for creating a nameless function. 
`(map 'vector (lambda (x) (* x x)) #(1 2 3 4 5 6) ;==> #(1 4 9 16 25 36)`

### Let
`(LET((x1 e1) ... (xn en)) e)`
of which `x` are variables and `e` are forms
First, all `ei` are evaluated at once and their values bound, in parallel to their respective `xi`, then `e` is evaluated
```Lisp
(LET ((x 3)
	  (y 1))
	(+ (* x y) x)) ;==> 6
```

### Let*
(and in WITH) `e1` is evaluated and its value bound to `x1` then `e2` is evaluated and bound to `x2` and so on. This is as opposed to `Let` binding values to variables "in parallel"

### DEFUN
"DEFining a FUNction"
`(DEFUN functionName (v1 ... vn) form*)`
where `vi` are parameters of the function and `form*` means zero or more forms (>=0).
```Lisp
(defun average (x y)
	"Returns the average of x and y" ;Documentation of function
	(/ (+ x y) 2.0))
```
==NO NEED FOR RETURN STATEMENTS IN LISP==

Built-in function called `ODDP` tests if argument is odd
To define a function called `MAKE-EVEN` that makes a number even by adding 1:
```Lisp
(defun make_even (x) 
	(if (oddp x) 
		(+ x 1) ;This is good indentation
		x))
```

### CASE
```Lisp
(defun convert-to-letter-grade (numeric-grade)
	(case (floor numeric-grade 10)
		(10 "A")
		(9 "A")
		(8 "B")
		(7 "C")
		(6 "D")
		(otherwise "F"))
	)
)
```


### DefVAR
`(defvar *lowerb* 1)` Notice that the "earmuffs" are just there to highlight the variable name (programming etiquette) as a global variable 
### SETF
`(setf *upperb* 10)` In this course and the textbook we will sometimes use `:=` as a synonym for `SETF`.
### ASH
Shifts bits right one (divides by 2).

