Mock test during next lab.
40 minutes for 3 programming questions in EMACS!

## Von Neumann's Bottleneck
A CPU only has access to data stored in registers (numbers and pointers) and the bulk of the data is in memory (RAM).
The communication between CPU and memory is the von Neumann Bottleneck. Choice of data structures will be affected by this bottleneck.


Two ways to store data in memory:
#### Contiguous Structure
Chunks of memory are stored in adjacent memory blocks.
- Enables more efficient data access
- Takes constant time to access an element (address of first + offset)
- e.g. arrays and structs
#### Linked Structure
Chunks of data have links to the next
- Data access is *less* efficient
- Cost (in time) depends on size of structure
- e.g. lists, trees, graphs.


#### Tuple 
Contiguous
In lisp, this is called "structure"
A "structure" has named slots each holding a primitive object or another structure
```Lisp
CL-USER> (defstruct movie
			title director year type)
```
This automatically creates a **constructor** called `(make-movie)`.
`#S(MOVIE: TITLE NIL: DIRECTOR NIL :YEAR NIL :TYPE NIL)`

#### Arrays
Does not exist in Python, but exists in C and Lisp
defined as: `#(3 4 5 6)`0
- Access to *i*-th element: $O(1)$
- Search can be done in $O(log\ n)$ using binary search

When you don't know in advance the amount of storage you'll need, use a Dynamic Vector. To create a "dynamic array"

E.g. using array
```Lisp
(defun codec (s k)
  "Where s is the plain text and k is an integer key
  Basic encryption / decryption by XORing ASCII with k"
  (let* ((res (make-array (length s)))
          (v (map-into res #'char-code s))
          (ev (map-into res #'(lambda (x) (logxor x k)) v)))
       (coerce (map-into res #'code-char ev) 'string))) ;Coercion is type casting
```

```Lisp
CL-USER> (codec "abc" 135)
"æåä"
CL-USER> (codec "æåä" 135)
"abc"
```


#### Sequential Search
- Searches over all elements of the vector starting from the first


### Homework:
Write a function that maps a function onto all elements of an array
Finish:
```Lisp
(defun my-map-into (res f a)
	(dotimes (...)
	...))

```