## Topic 1: Imperative Paradigm, Smalltalk basics

We will study fundamental concepts in the design of programming languages.

Languages vary in the following ways:
**Type systems**: static vs dynamic, strong vs weak typing.
**Paradigm**: object oriented, functional, and imperative
**Syntax and semantics**: scoping rules, data types, control structures, subprograms, encapsulation, concurrency and exception handling.


### Programming Languages Paradigms
What am I required to think about when using a language?
- Iterative vs recursion
- Static vs dynamic typing
- Classes and Objects? Functions or methods?
- Linked vs array data structures? Time Complexity?
- Mutability? Pass by value/reference?
- ...

Remember, the line between paradigms is grey.
Paradigms classify languages based on their features, a language can possess features from multiple paradigms.
Common in "industrial" languages, they pick and choose the best parts of each paradigm.
(industrial just means the ones we use in industry)

#### Imperative language paradigm: 
- C/C++
- Java

Typical of imperative paradigm:
- Iteration is prominent (iteration, for loops, while loops, etc.)
- Mutable data (many/most data types are mutable)
- Functions/methods access the world outside their local scope. (Global variables, instance variables, I/O, etc.)
- Fundamentally, computation is accomplished using statements that change a program's state. 
*"How must I, mutate and manipulate a set variables to get the result I want? What syntactic elements must I use?"*

Imperative programming uses **statements** to change a program's **state**
```java
public static void main(String[] args) {
	int y = 0; x = 0; //Statements!
	x = 7;
	y = x*2;
}
```
Variables represent locations in the computer's memory.
The contents of memory in use by a program, at any given time during execution, is called the **program's state**
Everything is done by changing values of variables (the state).

A "save state" of an emulator is a memory dump of the console's RAM and CPU register values.

Recipes, checklists, IKEA instructions are similar in style to imperative programming.

Why imperative?
Machine code is imperative! On a low-level, "state" can be described in terms of bits and bytes in memory and registers.

If imperative is intuitive and similar to machine code, why change?

**Software crisis** was coined at NATO software engineering conference in 1968
Computer power was increasing rapidly. Increasingly complex problems could be solved by computers, and software grew in complexity. 
Many software projects started failing.