### Fundamental Theorem of Algebra
Consider a n^th degree polynomial, #CBH 

Corollary:
An $n^{th}$ degree polynomial has exactly $n$ roots.
- Possibly complex
- Counting multiplicity

If P is a polynomial, ... #CBH 

Remember your polynomial long division!
$P(Z) = Z^3 - 6Z^2 + 11Z - 6$
$P(1) = 0$ ; 1 is a root of this polynomial!
$\therefore P(Z) = (Z-1)Q(Z)$ for some other function $Q$, do polynomial long division!
$P(Z) = (Z-1)(Z^2-5Z+6)$
$P(Z) = (Z-1)(Z-2)(Z-3)$
"Third degree polynomial with 3 roots"

For a function like:
$(Z-1)^3$, it looks like there's only one root (Z=1), but it has "**multiplicity**"
$(Z-1)(Z-1)(Z-1)$


### Eigen____
Suppose $A$ is an nxn matrix and suppose $X\neq 0$ is such that $AX=\lambda X$ for some scalar $\lambda$
$\lambda$ is called an **Eigenvalue** of A
$X$ is called an **Eigenvector** corresponding to $\lambda$

"Given nxn matrix A, how do we find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of A?"
"What is the significance of the eigenvalues and eigenvectors?"

$AX=\lambda I X$
$\lambda I X - AX = 0$
$\
#CBH 


$(\lambda I - A)^{-1}$ CANNOT EXIST! We have a contradiction as this would imply $\vec x = \vec 0$
$\therefore det(\lambda I - A) = 0$

### Definitions
A - nxn matrix.
**Spectrum of A** is the set of all eigenvalues of A: 
	$\sigma (A)$
Corresponding **Eigenspace** for eigenvalue $\lambda$: 
	$E_{\lambda} = null\{\lambda I - A\} = \{X:(\lambda I - A)X=0\}$

$\sigma(A)=\{1,1,0,\}$ ; note that $x=1$ is a root of multiplicity 2
$\implies E_{10} = \{X:(10I-A)X=0\}$
$\implies E_{1} = \{X:(I-A)X=0\}$
$\therefore E_{10} =$ span of a single vector
$\therefore E_{1} =$ span of two vectors


For an nxn matrix A, $det(\lambda I - A)$ is an $n^{th}$ degree polynomial in $\lambda$,
Called the **characteristic polynomial** of A and,
$det(A-\lambda I) = 0$ is the **characteristic equation**
$\sigma(A) = \{\lambda_1, \lambda_2, ..., \lambda_n\}$

If D is a diagonal matrix, then $\sigma(D) = \{\lambda_1, \lambda_2, ..., \lambda_n\}$ and for each $\lambda_i$ has $e_i$ as an eigenvector. The simplest case!

Example:
suppose $A$ is a 3x3 matrix with $\sigma(A) = \{2,1,-3\}$
