Starting c !

```C
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
int main(void) {
	int lucky=723;
	printf("The %s is %d\n", "lucky number", lucky);
	exit(0); //Same as return(0)
}
```

The "#include"'s are used by "pre-processor" to bring in dependencies

`gcc`: GNU C compiler.
To compile c, use `gcc` command. This will create an executable file (default `a.out`)

`gcc -o sample1 sample1.c` will create an executable named "sample1" from compiling "sample1.c"

When looking up c functions in man, use `man 3` 
`man 3 printf` Gets the manual for `printf` in C
`man printf` Gets the manual for `printf` in BASH

`int length = 36, width = 92;`
Is a valid good way to define multiple integers in C.

`scanf` is used to read form user input!

#### Implicit Type Conversion
char < int < float < double
When multiple types are used in an operation, the "lesser" one will be "promoted" into the "greater" one. 
	e.g. integer divided by a float will result in a float.

Be careful when dividing integers, don't want to accidentally do an integer division (and lose remainder/decimal then convert to float)

`%.0f` means print with no decimal places

##### Type Casts 
Are explicit type conversion
`(int)floatValue`

c is always pass-by-value not pass-by-reference. 
 This means that changing a value in a function won't change the value outside the function. Instead, we can pass pointers to the values we wish to modify!

Use `gcc -lm fileName.c` to "link" math library, else you may have an error.

Local variables can override global definitions. Try to avoid global variables when you can.

#### For compiling files that don't have a main function
`gcc -c` gives "object code" (`.o`), it *is* compiled but for it to run, you'll need to link the functions. This means your files don't need a `main` function.
`gcc myfuncs.o prog.o` will compile into `a.out`.

