Continuing with Eigenvectors (X) and Eigenvalues ($\lambda$)

$(AI - A)X = 0$
$\sigma(A)= \{\lambda_1, \lambda_2,...,\lambda_n\}$
$\lambda_i = E_{\lambda_i}(A) = null(\lambda I - A) = \{X:(\lambda I - A)X = 0\}$


For A, a nxn matrix,
$T_A:\mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^n$
$Ae_i=A_i$  ;  "A times a standard basis vector will give you a column of A"

Let's say,
$AV_1 = 2V_1$
$AV_2 = 1V_2$
$AV_3 = -3V_3$
$\sigma(A) = \{2, 1, -3\}$ "Spectrum of A"

In General,
$A$, a $n$x$n$ matrix, $T_A:\mathbb{R}^n \rightarrow \mathbb{R}^n$
$\sigma(A)= \{\lambda_1, \lambda_2,...,\lambda_n\}$
$D$ is a diagonal matrix with all the $\lambda$ values
$X_n:AX_n=\lambda_nX_n$
$P = (X_1|X_2|...|X_n)$
Assume $\{X_1|X_2|...|X_n\}$ is linearly independent.

Calculate AX for any X
1. Write X as a linear combination of $X_i$
	$X = c_1X_1 + ... + c_nX_n$
	$P[c_1...c_n]^T = X$
	$[c_1...c_n]^T = P^{-1}X$
2. $AX = A(c_1X_1 + ... c_nX_n)$
	$AX = c_1(AX_1) + ... + c_n(AX_n)$
	$AX = (c_1\lambda_1)X_1 + ... + (c_n\lambda_n)AX_n$

$D[c_1...c_n]^T = [\lambda_1c_1...\lambda_nc_n]^T$

$AX = (PDP^{-1})X$
$A = PDP^{-1}$

Only time we're doing non linear stuff is finding roots of polynomials!

### Diagonalizable
A and B are ***similar*** if there is an invertible matrix such that:
$A = P^{-1}BP$
And
$B = PAP^{-1}$
Therefore, the definition is symmetric
Note that:
$\lambda I - A$
$= \lambda I - P^{-1}BP$
$=\lambda(P^{-1}IP) - P^{-1}BP$
$= P^{-1}(\lambda I - B)P$

A nxn matrix A is called **diagonalizable** if A is *similar to a diagonal matrix*, i.e. if $P^{-1}AP=D$
Where $P=(X_1|...|X_n)$ is an invertible matrix and D is diagonal.


Suppose 
$P^{-1}AP=D$
$AP=PD$...
#CBH

A is diagonalizable iff it has n linearly independent eigenvectors

How can we tell if a matrix is diagonalizable? Find the eigenvalues and eigenvectors.

Multiple P's may exist, but $A = PDP^{-1}$ will hold. May have repeated eigenvalues. 

A matrix is not always diagonalizable!

Repeated eigenvalues is ambiguous about how many eigenvectors there are!

A nxn matrix with n distinct eigenvalues is diagonalizable.


$A=PDP^{-1}$
$A^2 = (PDP^{-1})(PDP^{-1})$
$A^2 = PD^2P^{-1}$
$A^m=PD^mP^{-1}$
