## Week 5 Reading Notes - Interpersonal Communication

Five stages of group development:
1. **Forming**
	- engage in socially polite exchanges to reduce uncertainty and gain familiarity.
2. **Storming**
	- Conflict emerges as group members begin to perform various roles, have their ideas heard and negotiate where they fit.
3. **Norming**
	- Practices and expectations (norms and rules) are solidified. This leads to more stability, productivity and cohesion within the group
4. **Performing**
	- Working, capitalizing on the synergy that comes from the diverse experiences group members bring to the decision-making process.
5. **Adjourning**
	- Group dissolves.

**Symbolic Convergence**: the sense of community or group consciousness that develops through non-task-related communication (stories and jokes)

**Group Fantasies** are verbalized references to other things, past, future, or other events or people.

**Group Socialization** is the teaching and learning of the norms, rules, expectations. What's communicated can be broken into two categories:
- Technical Knowledge: what's needed to complete a task
- Social Knowledge: behavioural norms that guide interaction.

##### Group Think
**Groupthink** is a NEGATIVE phenomenon characterized by a lack of critical evaluation of proposed ideas or courses of action that results from high levels of conformity pressures. "Just saying 'yes' to everything.". Other causes of groupthink include impending rewards/punishments, time pressures, or aggressive leaders.

To avoid Groupthink:
- Avoid all decision-making power ending up in the hands of the few.
- Track contributions of group members in such a way that each person's input and output is recorded (and can be discussed)
- Encourage and reward the expression of minority or dissenting opininons
- Allow members to submit ideas prior to a discussion so that opinions aren't swayed by members who propose ideas early in a discussion.
- Encourage members to play "devil's advocate", especially for major decisions.
- Have decisions reviewed by an "outside party".


#### Conflict
Three main types of conflict:
- **Procedural** (*How*)
	- Emerges from disagreements or trouble with the mechanics of group operations.
	- Often resolved by a vote
- **Substantive** (*What*)
	- Emerges from different beliefs, attitudes, values and ideas related to the purpose/task of the group.
	- Open discussion and debate here can easily lead to higher-quality output.
- **Interpersonal** (*Who*)
	- Emerges from conflict between individual members of a group.
	- Look out for passive-aggressiveness.\

**Primary Tensions** are what's there before breaking the ice
**Secondary Tensions** come later. Much less polite.

#### Managing Conflict:
Some common methods:
- Clear decision-making procedures
- Third-party mediation
- Leader facilitation

Tips:
- Clarify the issue at hand by getting to the "historical roots" of the problem and consider other perspectives
- Create a positive discussion climate by encouraging and rewarding active listening
- Discuss needs rather than solutions
- Set **boundaries** for discussion, prevent unproductive interactions.
- Use "we" language and "I" language appropriately


### Group Member Roles
More dynamic than leadership roles.

- **Task Leader**
	- High-group status
	- Tend to talk the most during group interactions.
	- Their behaviours can be divided into "substantive" (communicates "big picture" and "ideas") and "procedural" (gives guidance)
- **Expediter**
	- Keep the group on track.
	- Calls it when the group has taken too long on one thing
- **Information Provider**
	- May be expected to be the primary information provider.
- **Information Seeker** 
	- Asks for more information, elaboration or clarification on items relevant to the task.
	- This information includes factual information or opinions of members of the group.
- **Gatekeeper** 
	- Manages the flow of conversation in a group in order to achieve an appropriate balance so that *all* group members get to participate in a meaningful way.
	- "Invite" the quiet ones to speak up.
- **Recorder**
	- Takes notes on the discussion and activities that occur during a group meeting.
- ***Maintenance Roles***
	- Social-emotional leader
	- Supporter
	- Tension releaser
	- Harmonizers
	- Interpreter: helps manage the diversity within a group.
- ***Negative Roles and Behaviours***
	- Self-centred roles
	- Central-negative
	- Monopoliser: makes excessive verbal contributions.
	- Self-confessor.
	- Insecure compliment seeker
	- Joker
	- Blocker
	- Withdrawer
	- Aggressor
	- Doormat


#### DBT
Dialectical Behaviour Therapy!
Designed to help people with BPD,
Three pillars:
1. Mindfulness
2. Interpersonal effectiveness
	**DEAR MAN**:
	- **Describe** (the situation, and stick to facts)
	- **Express** (Use "I" statements)
	- **Assert** (other people can't read our minds, ask directly for what you want or very clearly saying NO)
	- **Reinforce** ("Reward" the behaviour we want)
	- **Mindful** (Keep focus on what you want)
	- **Appear** (confident! Make eye contact)
	- **Negotiate** (May have to come to a compromise)
3. Emotion Regulation



Saad over the summer, family, parents and siblings went to India. For cousins wedding. First time in 12 years. It felt like a big change. Big wedding. Went to a lot of different restaurants. Food is way better there. 19 Hour flight there, 20 hour back. 1 month. Weather was very hot.


Mathew

High school 12th grade he was took part in the competition with U of waterloo university making go electric carts. They were competing with real professionals in 12 v category while in 24 volts category they were in the top 3 their car could last for real long (one of the main criteria) but then the tournament was stopped because their car broke its axle thankfully no one was hurt and they still won a banner

Belbin Roles:

Sharif: Co-ordinator, Plant, Monitor Evaluator
Jorge: Shaper, Teamworker, Co-ordinator
Saad: Plant, Monitor evaluator, Completer finisher
Robert: Plant, teamworker, shaper
Nitant: Shaper, Specialist, Co-ordinator
Matthew: Resource Investigator, Completer finisher, Implementer
