## Week 6 Reading Notes; Longer Documents

### Reports
- Reports are often identified by their purpose (accident, laboratory, sales report, book report)
- Often analytical, but sometimes merely facts.
- Visual aids should be included

Elements of a report:
- Context
- Investigation
- Recommendations

#### Types of reports:
- Informational ('just the facts'). E.g. transcript, police report
	- Ensure information is specific, complete, and relevant
- Analytical reports (provide data, feedback, analysis, interpretation and recommendations); more subjective, but trying to be as objective as possible
	- Involves resolution offers for specific issues.

#### Format
Composed of the 5W's + H
1. Whom the report is about and/or prepared for
2. What was done (what problems were addressed, including conclusions)
3. Where the subject studied occurred
4. When the subject studied occurred
5. Why the report was written (the "function"), including authority and reason
6. How the subject operated, functioned, or was used.

The recommendations are the real **practical** and **actionable** items of the report!

#### Body of business report
Follows a standard "Decision making process"
1. State the problem
2. Identifies the background
3. Analysis and evaluation of information
4. Discussion of findings

#### Organization Pattern:
May be:
**Direct**
- Routine, non-sensitive information.
- Presents most important findings first, followed by facts, data, and other details
- Most appropriate for **informational reports**
or, **Indirect**
- May contain sensitive, controversial, debated, or unpleasant information.
	- Not all readers will be knowledgeable/agreeing/accepting of information and/or recommendations.
- Used exclusively for **analytical reports**

#### Information Organization Methods:
- Time: order of events
- Component: primarily for informational reports (elements such as geography, division, product, parts)
- Importance: Most important first, or vice versa
- Criteria: follow standards/benchmarks
- Convention: prescribed template

#### Types of reports
**Informal reports, aka "short report"**
- 10 pages or under
- Mostly for an *internal audience*
	- When internal, it can be a memo or email report
	- When external, it is a letter or email report
- Informational or analytical
- Always begin with the **purpose**! (may involve mentioning authority)
- Findings should be the longest part of the report

Any document that is 2 pages or longer should include a feature that helps separate information into unique sections. Use headers!

**Formal Reports, AKA "long reports"**
- Longer than 10 pages
- Often the culmination of many weeks of work
Contains:
- **Front Matter**: Everything that precedes the actual text of the report. Much more in a formal report
	- Letter of transmittal
	- Title page
	- Table of contents
	- List of illustrations
	- Abstract, begin with sentence that identifies
	- Introduction (DON'T MAKE MORE THAN 20%)
- **Report Text**
	- Body,
	- Recommendations
	- Conclusion that ties everything together.
- **Back matter**:
	- Glossary
	- References cited,
	- Appendices 


