25% mark, creating a FAQ page, 2 and a half hours to do

# Week 9: Reading Notes - Creating High-performance Web Pages

Traditional Paragraphs are becoming obsolete, lists are the new cool

Tips for creating compelling online content:
### Write for users, not readers 
(people hunt and forage on the internet, they don't read) 
- Think of pages as *function-driven* not *content-driven*
- "The key to a seductive website is immediate gratification"
- TACT method (Type of document your Audience needs to achieve goals in a Context)

**Pages**:
- Home pages should orient the reader to the site
- Navigation pages should present clear, straightforward menus
- Content pages should allow users to skim
- Forms pages should make it easy for users to input information.
	- Clearly spell out your purpose for requesting information
	- Conciseness and consistency!

### Create a web persona, not a web page
What's on the internet engenders an online personality

"Websites can appear friendly or standoffish, warm or cool, genuine or phony".
Does it fell natural and easy? Would you feel comfortable reading it out to someone?

**ETHOS** is huge.
- Indicate the source of the site's content.
- "About Us" section is the obvious place for users to scrutinize your credibility.
Refer to your company as "we". Include employee photos and profiles.


### Follow the journalist, not the essay writer
Organize material like an email.
Hook and re-hook them.

### Structure content in Chunks, not paragraphs
Partly because reading speeds are slower on screen than on paper.
- Bulleted lists,
- Extra white space,
- Horizontal rules,
- Different fonts.

### Pay careful attention to headings
Keep them descriptive and precise when possible
And keep them concise!

**Parallel headings** follow the identical syntax throughout a document or web page.

### Build Captivating Lists
Make them consistent!
Link a bulleted list to the text that precedes it with a colon.

### Follow through on Information Design
We tend to be most comfortable with people who act predictably.
Be consistent with the words you use and the way you appear.

### Use hyperlinks sparingly, not for special effect
And DON'T make them vague
"The *Technical Description* provides further details"

### Be Brief, not wordy
Think of conciseness as increasing the value of each word you write.

## My Own Online Research
A FAQ page should :
- answer common questions, 
- assuage concerns,
- overcome objections

Space to delve into the finer details of your product/service. Less "sales-focused"
- Don't be patronizing, don't show how great the company is, answer REAL QUESTIONS.
- SIMPLE and ORGANIZED
	- SHORT and SHARP

## In-Class section!
