## Matrix
Just an array of numbers arranged in rows and columns
- **Dimensions** (*m* x *n* ; in which *m* is rows and *n* is columns)
- **Indices**: "coordinates" of a number, ==**row first, column second**==
	- So if A is a matrix, A<sub>13</sub> would be row 1 column 3


When solving linear equations, "We want to put ones and zeros in all of the right places" 

**Leading Element**
- First non-zero element of a row is the leading element.

## The "algorithm" as given by Prof.
1. Make the leading element into a 1; this is the "leading 1"
2. "Zero out" the column beneath
3. Go down a row and repeat one and two
This is just like the textbook's algorithm, except the text book algorithm waits to the end to turn the leading elements into ones.

If using Gauss-Jordan elimination, then go bottom-up eliminating what isn't a leading one


### Many solutions?
2x3 matrix:
```Augmented_Matrix
1  0  2  | 2
0  1 -1  | 2
```
$x_1 + 2x_3=2$
$x_2-x_3=2$
In this example, the "leading ones" become the "*basic variables*" (aka "*leading variables*") the other variables are "free variables". We can solve the for "basic variables" in terms of "free variables"
$x_1=2-2x_3$
$x_2=2+x_3$
Any choice of $x_3$ (the "free variable") gives a solution; i.e. infinitely many (1-dimensional) solutions. We can let it equal an arbitrary value and $x_1$ and $x_2$ will "depend on it to keep the matrix consistent".


## No Solutions?
If you end up with something like:
```
1   1   |   2
0   1   |  1/2
0   0   | -1/2
```
Then, $0x_1 + 0x_2 = -1/2$  ?  Contradiction!

**However, if a row is all zeros (e.g. $0x_1 + 0x_1 = 0$) then it ISN'T a contradiction and you can still find a (or more) solution(s).

Terminology:
- Leading element
- Basic variable (aka "leading variable")
- Free variable

Q's:
- when writing our row operations, should the modified row be written second? Does it really matter?
	- It does not matter, whatever ya like
