To multiply matrices, they HAVE TO BE compatible.
\# of columns in A must equal to \# of rows in B.
Therefore it is possible for AB to be valid but BA be invalid.

Of course, multiplying a matrix by a compatible 0 matrix, the result is a zero matrix.
- If A and B are 1x1 matrices, it's just ordinary multiplication.
- AB and BA usually not the same, they sometimes are.
- if A is 1xn and B is nx1, then the result is just a number.

#### Alternative View of Matrix Multiplication
instead of column by column, we can work entry by entry.
When multiplying vectors $A$ and $B$
To find $(AB)_{ij}$, i.e. find the element of $AB$ in row $i$ column $j$,

$(AB)_{ij} = a_{i1}b_{1j} + a_{i2}b_{2j} + ... + a_{ir}b_{jr}$
$= \sum^r_{r=1} a_{ir}b_{rj}$ 

\# of columns of A = \# of rows of B


#### Properties of matrix multiplication
For matrices A, B, C with the proper dimensions
- A(BC) = (AB)C "Associativity"
- A(B+C) = AB + AC "Distributive"
if c is a scalar,
c(AB) = A(cB)

##### Transpose
If A is an mxn matrix, then its transpose, denoted $A^T$ is the nxm matrix whose columns are the rows of A; swap rows and columns. NOT a rotation
$A=(a_{ij})\ \ ; \ \ (A^t)_{ij}=a_{ij}$

##### Properties of the Transpose:
- $(AB)^T = B^TA^T$ <-- Notice the "flip"; if A is $m*r$, then $A^T$ is $r*m$
- $(cA)^T = c(A^T)$
- $(A+B)^T=A^T+B^T$


#### Symmetric Matrices
Are equal to their transpose! $A= A^T$. 
"**Skew Symmetric**" is when $A = -A^T$
	These can both only ever be "square matrices"
A **diagonal matrix** has all non-diagonal elements = 0.

### Matrix Division

When A and B are "squares" of equal sizes, AB and BA both make sense, but may not be the same


##### The Identity Matrix
Is all ones on the diagonal (ultimately a square matrix). It acts like the number 1 with respect to multiplication.

###### Invertible Matrices $(A^{-1})$
A *square matrix* A is called **invertible** if we may find a matrix B such that:
- $AB = I$ <-- Identity matrix
- $BA = I$
This "found" matrix $B$ MUST be unique. 
This may also be denoted: $A^{-1}$

$A=0$ is NOT invertible.

A matrix is NOT invertible if you can find non-trivial solutions to the system of equations.

==To check if a matrix is invertible, we can put it in its RREF and find non-trivial solutions!== 
It IS invertible if $RREF(A) = I$  <-- Identity Matrix

In general, for an $n*n$ system $AX=B$, if the coefficient matrix is invertible, then the solution is $X=A^{-1}B$
In the $1*1$ case, we can see this as:
$ax=b$
$x = b/a$
$x=a^{-1}b$   (as long as $a \neq 0$)

How to find $A^{-1}$ from $A$?
	We want to choose x1, x2, y1, y2 such that $AA^{-1}=I$
Read next notes to find out how: 
	[[Fall 2024/MTH108 Linear Algebra/L07-09-25|L07-09-25]]
	

