We express equations of a plane as:
$ax + by + cz + d = 0$
or
$ax + by + cz = -d$
$a,b,c$ are a *component* of the normal vector. 

Note that the dot product of $<a,b,c>$ and a vector on the plane is 0

For which values of k does the line:
$x=4+2t; y=5+t; z=7+2t$
Intersect the plane:
$3x + 2y - kz + 7=0$
at (a)one point? (b)many points? (c)no points?

We can think of the line as: $<4,5,7>+t<2,1,2>$
$3x+2y-kz+7=0$
If we substitute $x,y,z$ into the equation of the plane, we will get an equation with k and t

For many or no intersections, the line must be parallel to the plane.

for (a), the line will have a unique solution when the line is orthogonal to the plane.

Apparently,
(a) $k\neq4$
(b) not possible
(c) $k=4$


We have enough data for a plane with a point and a normal vector
$P_0 = <x_0, y_0, z_0>$
$n = <a,b,c>$

We have enough data for a line with a point and direction vector:
$P_0=<x_0,y_0,z_0>$
$V=<a,b,c>$ 


#### Intersections between two planes
- Infinitely many points (along a line)
- Infinitely many points (along a plane)
- None

$2x - 3y + z - 7 = 0$
$3x + 4y -2z - 4=0$
Can rewrite as: (and solve system of linear equations)
$2x - 3y + z =7$
$3x + 4y -2z =4$

#### Intersections between two lines; $\mathbb{R}^3$
- None
- Unique
- Infinitely many

**Parametric Equations:**
$l_1:$
$x = -1 + 2t$
$y = 2-3t$
$z = 2t$

$l_2:$
$x=0+t$
$y=-1-t$
$z=-2+2t$

The t's need not be the same in each equation for there to be an intersection!

We can set up these equations to find intersections like so:
$x:-1 + 2t_1 = 0 + t_2$
$y:2-3t_1 = -1-t_2$
$z:2t_1=-2+2t_2$

Can turn this into a 3x2 system of linear equations
$2t_1-t_2=1$
$-3t_1+t_2=-3$
$2t_1-2t_2=-2$
Then we can find $t_1$ and $t_2$ and **solve** our system (find the intersections of the lines)


## Geometry in $\mathbb{R}^3$

"It comes down to the dot product", Gives us the stuff we want...
We can use the **dot product** to find **norm**, **distance** and **angle**
$d(V,W)=\sqrt{(V-W)\cdot (V-W)}$
$\vec V \cdot \vec W = ||\vec V||||\vec W||cos\theta$

### Properties of the Dot Product
- $(\vec u + \vec v) \cdot \vec w = \vec u \cdot \vec w + \vec v \cdot \vec w$
- $(c\vec w) \cdot \vec v = c(\vec w \cdot \vec v)$
- $\vec w \cdot \vec v = \vec v \cdot \vec w$
- $||\vec u ||^2 = \vec u \cdot \vec u$
- $\vec u \cdot \vec u \geq 0$ and will only equal zero if $\vec u = \vec 0$

(Length) Norm of a vector V
$||\vec V|| = \sqrt{\vec V \cdot \vec V} = \sqrt{\sum^n_{i=1}v_i^2}$

**Triangle Inequality**
$||V + W|| \leq ||V|| + ||W||$
(only equal when the vectors are scalar multiples of each other)


### Properties of Distance
- $d(V,W) = d(W,V)$
- $d(V,W) \leq 0$ <-- Equal only when $V=W$
- $d(V,W) \leq d(V,U) + d(U,W)$ <-- Triangle inequality


In $\mathbb{R}^n$, how can we define angle between vectors?

#### Cauchy-Schwartz Inequality
$|V \cdot W| \leq ||V||||W||$


$f(t) = ||V-tW||^2$ 
$= (V-tW)\cdot (V-tW)$
$= ||V||^2 -2t(V\cdot W)+t^2||W||^2$
- $\geq 0$
- This is a parabola! (Never less than zero, upwards opening either touches zero or always above)
think $at^2 + bt + c$
$a=||W||^2$
$b=-2(V\cdot W)$
$c=||V||^2$
The "discriminant" $b^2-4ac$
$4(V\cdot W) - 4||W||^2||V||^2 \leq 0$
$|V\cdot W| \leq ||V||||W||$

So how can we define the angle between two vectors?

Choose $\theta$, such that $0\leq \theta \leq \pi$ so that
$V\cdot W= ||V||||W||cos\theta$



If,
$||V||=\sqrt{15}$
$||W||=\sqrt{2}$
$V\cdot W = 3$,
Then,
$\theta = cos^{-1}(\frac{3}{\sqrt{30}})$

