To show that vectors are linearly independent is just the same as solving the homogenous system of equations!
(If the ONLY solution is the TRIVIAL solution!), makes sense geometrically!


### Subspaces and Basis

A line through the origin in $\mathbb{R}^2$ is a 1-dimensional **subspace**
Any plane through the origin in $\mathbb{R}^3$ is  2-dimensional **subspace**.

In the vector space $\mathbb{R}^n$, we may:
- Add vectors,
- Scale vectors

These two operations together lead to linear combinations

Given V, W $\in \mathbb{R}^n, aV+bW$ is another vector in $\mathbb{R}^n$

Note that a line that doesn't go through the origin is NOT a subspace

If we had a line that doesn't pass through the origin. Let's say we have a vector that "points to a point on the line". Scaling that vector will NOT give us another point on that line. THIS is an important property of subspaces!

Of course, something like the "XY-Plane" in $\mathbb{R}^3$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^3$ 

If we consider any plane through the origin in $\mathbb{R}^3$, any combination of two vectors in this plane is also on the same plane


Subspace of $\mathbb{R}^4$:
$V  = \{<x_1,x_2,x_3,x_4>:x_1+x_2+x_3+x_4=0\}$

**Alternative Definition**
$V \subset \mathbb{R}^n$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n$ if:
1. Whenever $v,w,\in V \implies (v+w) \in V$
2. Whenever $v\in V$ and $a$ is any scalar, then $av \in V$
**i.e. $V$ is $closed$ under scalar multiplication and vector addition**


Given a set of vectors $\in \mathbb{R}^n$, then the span of those vectors is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n$

**Theorem**:
suppose $V \subset \mathbb{R}^n$ is a subspace of $\mathbb{R}^n$, then there is a collection of vectors $v_1, v_2, ..., v_m$ such that $V=span\{v_1,v_2,...v_m\}$. Moreover, these vectors may be chosen to be linearly independent.

If I have a subspace, it MUST be a span of vectors.

## Basis

$\mathbb{R}^3$ **basis**. "Standard basis for $\mathbb{R}^3$"
$e_1 = <1,0,0>$
$e_2 =<0,1,0>$
$e_3 = <0,0,1>$
1. $V=x_1r_1+x_2e_2+x_3e_3$
2. linearly independent

Two bases for a subspace have the same number of vectors!


$V \subset \mathbb{R}^n$
and V contains just the zero vector
$dim(V) =0$ <-- "Dimension"


Vectors are linearly independent when AX=0 has ONLY the trivial solution!
