Week 2 Readings notes:
From *Communicating for Results: A Canadian Student's Guide* by Meyer, C.
### Plain Style
- Use common everyday, words, except for necessary technical terms
- Use reasonable sentence lengths
- Use the active voice and phrasal verbs
- Place the subject as close as possible to the verb
- Use personal pronouns (in moderation in all except formal reports)
- Use clear, unambiguous language (and avoid vagueness)

### To prevent sounding pretentious
- Curb use of words ending in "-ize" and "-ization" (except for very easy, common ones)
- Avoid using foreign words and phrases
- The only *jargon* should be job-related!
- Avoid buzzwords

### To use "fresh" language
- Replace cliches
- Retire outdated business expressions
- Eliminate slang

### Keep language Specific, Precise and functional
- Provide specific details using **concrete nouns** 
- Quantify facts and avoid vague qualitative statements
- Avoid ambiguous and non-idiomatic expressions
- Use comparisons and analogies to clarify

### Practice Factual and Ethical Communication
- Be mindful biases
- Always make sure you can back up statements using "absolutely", "entirely", "always", etc.

### Select the Right *Level* of Formality
- And stay consistent!

### Be positive!
Negative attitude: You cannot use the online training system until you have been issued a password
Positive attitude: You may begin using the online training system once you receive your password.

### Stress Reader Benefits and Relevance
- Present meaningful content
- Develop a positive **you-attitude** or **we-attitude**

### Be Polite (but not overly so)
Positive politeness strategies (to show friendliness)
- Balance criticism with compliments
- Use *politeness markers* (e.g. please, could, would)
- Find common ground and use in-group language
- Show interest
Negative politeness strategies (showing deference instead of imposing)
- Asking questions (rather than asserting)
- Presenting disagreements as opinions
- Uses hedges (words such as "*perhaps*") 
- Being indirect and avoiding imposition
Over-politeness can come off as cold or sarcastic

## Write with confidence
1. **Use definite, forward-looking language**. Give priority to strong deliberate verbs, precise nouns, and vivid adjectives.
2. **Don't make unnecessary apologies**. 
3. **Use strong, assertive phrasing**
4. **Be knowledgeable and informative**.
5. **Guard against overconfidence**

# Lecture Notes
## Planning a document / business style / direct messages

A good document is:
1. **Purpose Driven**
2. **Audience Focused**
4. **Concise**: big words are bad!

Remember, you don't want a reply!

#### Know your Audience
- What is their role?
- Are they superior/inferior to you?
- Do you know each other?
- Do you have a friendly or formal relationship?
- How much do they know?
- Are you asking or telling?
- Commanding or requesting?
- What might their response be? (Try to answer and likely questions that may arise)
- Who else will read it? / What about future audiences?

#### Drafting Tips
Lots of what we do are E-mails or memos.
- Ask yourself:
	- What am I trying to say
	- What would I say if I were taking face-to-face? (Context of body language should be put into the E-mail)
- Start with what you know
	- Opening is often the hardest part (no need to do this first)
- ***Freewrite*** whatever comes to mind and select good parts later!

#### Revising & Editing
- Revising helps to ensure content is right
	- Organized, clear, right tone.
- Long documents should be printed and edited. 
- Read slowly
- If important, have someone read it over.
- Check and check again (no such thing as a "final draft")
- Don't trust a spell or grammar checker (**USE CANADIAN SPELLING**)

#### Read again for:
- Conciseness (ensure there are no redundancies)
- If you need to take a breath in a sentence, it's probably too long
- Consistency in tone, *word choice* (don't use new terms to reiterate a point), tense
- Check headings, tables, graphs, images...
- Readability
	- Eliminate wordiness, pretentious or vague language, biases, confusing statements

## Business Style
Been around since ~mid 90's (because of E-mail becoming widespread)
- **plain** & **brief**
- Use everyday language
- Keep sentences as short as possible (under 20 words)
- Use personal pronouns where appropriate
- No longer need to do a formal introductory in an email ("hope this email finds you well") 
	- This is different from using a "buffer" when delivering bad news

### What to avoid
- Complicated language
- Idioms and cliches
- Buzz words
- Limit jargon unless understood by all parties
- Slang and swear words
- Abbreviations unless they are certainly well understood 
- Little-known acronyms before defining them

### Getting what you want
- Use precise language
- Use specific numbers rather than vague quantities

### Choose words wisely
- Use accurate and positive words
- NO: "Cheap", "Fake"
- YES: "Economical", "Unrealistic"

### Stress reader benefits
- Assume their point of view, and *emphasize* what they have to gain (from doing what you want them to do often)

## Direct Messages
- Delivers informative information
- Brief and to-the-point
- Neutral in tone
	- Avoids invoking emotional responses

### Memos
- Memos are "memoranda"
	- Reminder about something to be done in the future
- Intended to convey information to specific a individual or group
- Used to broadcast information within an organization (*internal*)
- Designed to be read quickly
- Have a standard format
Format:
- Header:
	- TO, FROM, SUBJECT (The one place to NOT be grammatically correct; aim for 4/5 words; DON'T ask anything)
- First few sentences should address the purpose of the memo. They may be the only lines that are read. Don't just copy the subject line.
- After addressing the main point, you may add some reasoning behind the issue (if appropriate). This helps clarify or justify the organization's actions.
- Finally, add instructions/deadlines that must be met.

### Formula for planning and writing memos
1. A clearly worded and brief subject line
2. A clear and direct opening sentence which captures the key message in plain language
3. A clear explanation of the informative message
4. Instructions and deadlines for following up (steps for the reader, things needed to know, etc.)
5. A positive closing (try to spin everything in the positive) (hopefully a bit inspiring, more than just)

#### Tips for planning and writing memos
- Body of memo moves from most to least important
- Last few sentences may reiterate main point or emphasize a call to action
- Use graphic techniques to highlight key info (bold, italics once or twice (don't overuse))
- Break up long paragraphs into smaller chunks (chunking)
- Use bulleted lists if appropriate
- End with courtesy appropriate for the situation.
- Sign off with name of a person and/or department


