### Week 3 Reading Notes; Writing Persuasively
Lannon & Klepp
Persuasion challenges include:
- A reader might dispute facts (question if they're correct/from a reliable source) or believe key facts have been omitted
- It may be difficult to convince the reader to accept your interpretation and evaluation of facts
- Reader may not accept recommended actions

Some tips include:
- Assess the ***political** realities* (who wants want, what you might be seen as trying to do, etc)
- Expect Audience Resistance (those who've made up their minds are less vulnerable to persuasion than those who haven't)
	- People tend to revert to familiar patterns and activities that are part of their lifestyle or work habits.

When people yield to persuasion, they can be classified as one of these three:
1. **Compliance** (grudgingly): "I don't like this, but I'm not given much choice" OR "I don't like this but the reward/punishment is significant"
2. **Identification** (willingly): "I like / believe you, I think we have something in common, and maybe I want you to like me"
3. **Internalization** (eagerly): "I agree with what you're saying, lines up with my goals/values"

Compliance may sometimes be necessary, but *effective persuasion* relies on identification and internalization.

To connect with an audience, three strategies may be used:
- **Power connection** (declaring what you want)
- **Relationship connection** (creating a relationship)
- **Rational connection** (appealing to reason)

Also be mindful of constraints, whether they're legal, ethical, rules of the business, timing, etc.

Make sure to appeal to common goals and highlight them! Don't just give *good reasons* make sure they carry some *personal*, understandable, relatable reasons. e.g. Teenagers' attitudes on the downsides of smoking don't think about death by cancer, they think of things more immediate.

Also make sure to consider any cultural differences. This is very important in international work.
- Values and attitudes (big business, technology, competition, risks, youth vs age, results vs relationships)
- Legal and social systems (class distinctions, lawyer involvement, role of gift giving (bribery or respect?))
- Accepted behaviour (formalities for making requests, expressing disagreement/criticism/praise)

# Lecture Notes

What is Rhetoric?
Aristotle, *On Rhetoric*, three points to "get people to do what you want them to do"
- Communication with specific intent on target audience
- Function and strategic use:
	- Change how people think, believe, feel, act
	- Be a good citizen

Rhetorical triangle. Any persuasive message should have three main points:
- **Logos**: content, data, must be clear & rational
	- Appeals to reason
- **Ethos**: YOU, the writer/speaker, credibility
	- Appeals to audience's sense of **ethics**
	- Involves gaining trust
- **Pathos**: the audience, connection, relationship, "what does the audience want to feel"
	- Appeals to emotions, it *is* manipulation but not lying
	- All about knowing the audience and making them feel a certain way.
	- Ask:
		- What does the audience expect/want/interested in?
		- What does the audience value?


Basic template for persuasive message:
Use the indirect approach by slowly leading to "the ask". (Don't say it right away!) Use Logos, Ethos and Pathos before getting to the point.

Basic Formula:
- Obtain interest
	- Ask a question? Define a problem?
- Offer a benefit
	- Prove you or your business can help
- Ask for action 
	- Close the sale, give a deadline, make that persuading point

