## Week 4 Reading Notes
Delivering Unfavourable news
Goals:
- Neutralizing emotional impact
- Being respectful of receiver's needs.
- Understanding when and how to apologize.

#### Tone
aim for a tactful, neutral tone tailored to the situation.
- Don't plead with the reader ("please understand")
- Beware of mixed messages
- Avoid statements based on assumptions of the reader ("you will certainly agree")
- Stick to facts and avoid jargon
- Avoid statements of opinion
- Edit timid or overly apologetic statements that may weaken the reader's confidence in your decision.
- Use expressions of sympathy ("sorry"/"I regret"/"Unfortunately") carefully to avoid *hinting* at bad news

Use a *positive emphasis* as long as it doesn't mislead readers into expecting good news.


### Indirect Writing Plan
Good for when:
- Don't know the reader well
- Bad news isn't anticipated
- Anticipate a strong negative reaction from the reader.

Embed the main message in the whole message, delay until the reader has been prepared for it.
Readers are less likely to react negatively, toss the message aside or take the bad news personally.

##### Bad News Buffers
The "buffer" (1-3 sentences) is a first defence against toxic messaging that puts the reader in a more agreeable frame of mind, helping to neutralize the bad news when it is finally revealed.
- Meaningful
- Neutral
- Establishes rapport with the reader without forecasting bad news.

1. Opening (buffer), guide the reader to the explanation
2. Explanation: solid, reasonable
3. State the bad news: phrase it to minimize its impact, and if possible, balance with an alternative
4. Close pleasantly

Tips for revealing bad news:
- Put the bad news in a dependent clause: after "although", "as", "because", "since", "while", etc.
- Suggest a compromise or an alternative
- Use the passive voice: No need to reveal who made a decision ("Although a refund cannot be granted at this time...")
- Long sentences de-emphasize content
- Use positive language
- Avoid spotlighting bad news.
- Imply the refusal: make sure the explanation is clear and thorough.

##### Goodwill Closing
- Don't repeat the bad news, remind reader of past problems, or hint at future difficulty.
- Offer good wishes to the reader
- Don't invite further correspondence unless you sincerely want contact.
- Don't apologize for having to say no, especially at the end of your message.
- Don't take credit for helping the reader unless you have actually provided assistance.

### Direct Writing plan
Some messages demand directly breaking the bad news.
Better when:
- Bad news is expected or related to a known problem
- When critical information might otherwise escape notice
- When bad news is not serious significant or detrimental to the reader

Whenever possible, follow up the explanation with the offer of an alternative.

1. Opening: simple, well-phrased statement of the bad news (give news ONLY ONCE)
2. Explanation: should be brief and clear
3. Alternative (if possible)
4. Closing: goodwill statement that doesn't refer to the bad news.


#### Apologies
Apologies likely consist of some of the following elements:
- Acknowledgement of the offence
- Explanation of the factors contributing to the offence
- Show of remorse
- Offer of repair or restitution
- Commitment to reform.

Do NOT apologize for minor issues that have been promptly corrected or when there's nothing really to apologize for.
The reader has to care for there to be a true need for an apology.
Do apologize for any serious trouble or inconvenience for which you or your company are responsible.


Generally, the more serious the bad news is, the more readers benefit from an explanation that helps them take stock of the situation.


#### Declining Invitations
1. Express appreciations for the invitation or pay the reader a compliment
2. Express you regret at not being able to attend (if appropriate, explain the reason and use passive voice)
3. Propose a constructive alternative if one is available
4. End by renewing goodwill.

#### Responding to negative social media messages / reviews
- Be strategic and swift in responding
- Avoid using defensive, threatening, or coercive language
- Discreetly move the conversation to a less public forum.


## In Lecture Notes:

#### For persuasive messages,
Make sure to obtain attention, offer benefits, THEN make the ask.
Give the reasons to say yes long before asking the question!

### Negative Message lecture:

#### Goals:
- **Clarity** (You don't want a reply)
	- Avoid misinterpretation
- **Respect**
	- Maintain goodwill
- Show logic/fairness of decision/event
- Protect yourself/your organization from legal action
	- No lies, hostility, things that can be contradicted, 

#### Tone
- Aim for neutral tone (don't be emotional)
- Don't plead or make assumptions!
- Avoid opinion
- Don't excessively apologize or seem weak
- Don't open with expressions that reveal bad news
Avoid "regret" and "sorry".

#### Subject line
- Avoid revealing bad news
- Be neutral or emphasize the positive (if possible)
BAD: "Application Denied", Better: Your Application Status

### Formula:
1. Begin with Buffer (buffers bad news to come), expect that the reader is expecting bad news.
	- Short statement
2. Provide solid explanation (before saying bad news)
3. State bad news
	- include options/alternatives if applicable
4. Close with goodwill statement
	- Show consideration without being apologetic (unless you really did do something bad)
##### Buffer
- Aim to *reduce* (not eliminate) surprise/shock
- Establish rapport without forecasting bad news.
- Might include agreement, appreciation and/or summary of past events.
- Avoid negative words
- Do NOT mislead reader (don't make it sound like good news)

Types of buffers:
- Appreciation: "thank you" for an action
- Good/neutral news: MUST be relevant
- Statement of fact/principle: outline "big picture" policies and/or practices
- Chronology of past communications: retrace recent correspondence
- Agreement/common ground: relevant, shared view
- Apology or understanding: Use sparingly when reader has suffered unduly and it's actually your fault. Apology says "I'm guilty"
- Compliment: do NOT use false flattery

##### Explanation
- After buffer, explain bad news to come
- **Focus on facts**, not opinions
- Refer to company policy
	- DO NOT justify with policy, you are talking to a human being, sometimes rules have to be broken
- Use positive language where possible.

##### The Reveal
- Use dependant clause!
	- "Although there were many applicants...", "Because of the high volume of claims...", etc.
- Offer solution or alternative if applicable
- Use passive voice: "A refund cannot be granted" is better than "We cannot grant a refund"
- Longer sentences
- Positive spin if possible

##### Close
- Don't repeat bad news
- Offer good wishes
- Don't encourage future communication
- Don't apologize at end
- Don't claim you helped reader


1st paragraph for Buffer
2nd paragraph are the reasons for bad news
Bad news can be 3rd paragraph or end of 2nd paragraph
Final paragraph is the closing