## Coin flipping game!
Alice flips coin, Bob guesses

#### Using Hash
1. Alice and Bob agree on a one way (hash) function **f** that they will use
2. Alice chooses random number x. She computes y = f(x)
3. Alice sends y to Bob
4. Bob guesses if x is even or odd and sends guess to Alice
5. If bob's answer is correct, the result of the coin flip is heads, otherwise it's tail.
6. Alice announces the result of the coin flip and sends x to Bob.
7. Bob confirms that y=f(x)

Security of this system lies in the hash function. If Alice can find even x and odd x' that have the same hash, she can cheat.

#### Using Cryptography
Needs cryptographic algorithm is commutative, e.g. RSA with identical moduli $n = p*q$

1. Alice and Bob generate public and private keys $E_A, D_A, E_B, D_B$ respectively.
	$D_A(E_B(E_A(M))) = E_B(M)$ <-- $D_A$ cancels out $E_A$, property of RSA
2. Alice generates two unique random strings $M_1$ and $M_2$ as head and tail respectively.
3. Alice encrypts them with her public key and sends them (random order) to Bob. 
	(Alice's commitment)
4. Bob, who can not read them chooses one at random. He encrypts it with his public key and sends it back to Alice: $E_B(E_A(M_1))$ OR $E_B(E_A(M_1))$
	(Bob's commitment)
5. Alice, who can not read the reply decrypts it with her private key $D_A$ and sends reply back to Bob:  $D_A(E_B(E_A(M))) = E_B(M_1) \lor E_B(M_2)$
6. Bob decrypts message with his private key to reveal the result of the coin flip.
7. Alice reads the result of coin flip and verifies that random string is correct
8. Both Alice and Bob reveal their key pairs to confirm other party did not cheat.

This protocol is **self-enforcing** because:
- Either party can immediately detect cheating by the other
- No trusted third party is needed.


### Secret Sharing (another protocol)
We can require collusion to allow access. Think of two people needing keys to unlock nuclear missile silo.

"Parts of a key" are called **shadows**. (when multiple people are needed)
###### Math:
Key is divided into n parts called shadows, and in order to recover, m shadows are needed
**LaGrange interpolating polynomial scheme** proposed by Adi Shamir.
- Choose prime number p larger than number of possible shadows and larger than the largest possible secret. P is public.
- If we want m shadows, we need polynomial of degree m-1.
	- e.g. m=3 polynomial is: $(ax^2 + bx + M) mod\ p$ <-- M is the secret
- Coefficients a and b are chosen randomly and they are kept secret and discarded after shadows are distributed.

To then reconstruct M from the shadows, we end up with a system of equations (unknown, a, b, etc., M) and the constants (right side) are the shadows. (x values are deterministic (1 for first shadow, 2 for second...))


\== new slideshow ==
## Official Security Protocols

No objective measure for protocols being better than others.
Because weaknesses are found in protocols over time, we tend to prefer **old and public** protocols over new and proprietary.

##### Access Control Lists (ACL)
Sometimes the object itself has a list of who has access to it.

