Computer security is often advertised in the abstract: "Payments are secure", "This system is secure"
This doesn't make sense, "secure from what?", "secure from whom?".
Nothing is completely secure.

**We need to make decisions about what the system is to be defended against and what threats we're going to ignore** - This is OK!


## "System"?
The notion of a "system" is relatively new to science. "A pully is a machine; an elevator is a system with many different machines"

Systems have components, feedback loops, mean times between failure and infrastructure that allows them to run.

Systems interact with each other, forming larger systems, and they have emergent properties 
	... and bugs. (note: bugs aren't the 'malfunction' but lead to the 'malfunction')

## Connectivity, Complexity, Extendibility
All contribute to a lack of security
Everything is connected to everything, is more complex, and interacts with everything!
This makes security very difficult.

We can design operating systems that are provably secure, but we can't actually build them as the real world involves design trade-offs, unseen variables, imperfect implementations, and faulty installations.

Threats in the digital world mirror threats in the physical world.

While threats may be the same, in cyberspace, they will be more common, widespread, harder to track, and devastating. 

The internet is helping attacks because of:
- Automation
- Action-at-a-distance
- Propagation of successful techniques
	- Market for attack software (malware) kits

## Prevention, Detection, and Reaction
Good security encompasses prevention, detection and reaction

A 'prevention-only' strategy only works if the mechanisms are perfect - otherwise, someone will figure out how to get around them!

Privacy and security do NOT go well together (in a complex system, more of one means less of the other)


#### Traffic Analysis
While the body of packets are encrypted, the heads aren't, so it's often public who (what IP address) is interacting with what server (and maybe what application they're using).

## CIA Triad
Confidentiality
Integrity
Availability - Attacked by denial-of-service

Denial-of-service can be done by simply transmitting strongly on a certain frequency. Interestingly, low-tech solutions is often better high-tech.

## Adversaries
Who is threatening the digital world?
Helps to categorize by objectives, access, resources, expertise, and risk. 
It's important to identify objectives, although, often it boils down to money.

