Continuing on Access Control.
Talking about operating systems and software now.

Confidentiality, Availability and Integrity all boil down to access control.
Authorized people must be able to do what they are authorized to do, and other's can't.

"Subjects" have levels of access to "Objects".

### Bell-LaPadula model
Follows **need to know principle**
Can read at your clearance level and everything below, but can write to your level and above (BUT NOT BELOW).
Can't accidentally communicate high-level secrets down
This is the: "**No read up and no write down rule**"

Mandatory Access Control (MAC) (Unix ones are discretionary access control DAC)

This concentrates on confidentiality at the expense of everything else.
It also ignores the problem of how to manage classifications.

Sometimes, users need to work with data that they are not authorized to see, therefore, "sanitization" of objects has to be performed.


#### Integrity Policies
Deal with the integrity of programs and integrity of data.

Major components include:
- Separation of duties:
	- Software developer cannot install program on end user system.
- Separation of function.
	- Developer can not develop software on end user's system and cannot use end user's data.

##### Chinese Wall Model
deals with conflict of interest among subjects. It looks at computer systems with data from mutually distrustful users and how to ensure separation.
- Information barrier protocol to prevent communication that leads to conflict of interest.
One person can't advise two competitors. 


#### Originator Controlled Access (ORCON)
Digital rights management, combines MAC and DAC

#### Role based access -RBAC
- Role of "subject" dictates access, not identities.


## Security Kernels and trusted computing bases
OSs have some built-in security. Often, the best place to put security is the lowest layer.

1. Resembles Bell La Padula policy (no write down and no read up)
2. It is possible to compromise security at a given layer by attacking a layer below
3. It is simpler to add security at the core of the system
4. It is often faster


Components of Operating System security:
- Reference monitor: checks system calls from processes, and decides to allow/block
- Trusted Computing base includes all protection mechanisms inside the computer (hardware, firmware, OS, software, etc.)
- Secure kernel: 


Bit of review,

**Digital Signatures** is a construct that authenticates both the origin and contents of the message to a disinterested third party judge. This is verifiable, non-forgeable and non-repudiable.