## Hackers and Hacking

Possible definition: an individual who experiments with the limitations of systems for intellectual curiosity or sheer pleasure; a person with a particular set of skills and not a particular set of morals.

Hacking has very much become a "company venture"

### Ethical Hacking
"Hey I noticed you had a bad front door lock, so I broke in and didn't touch anything, you should upgrade that"


Lone criminals cause the bulk of computer-related crimes. Often the most dangerous are "insiders" who notice a flaw in the system and exploit it.

### Industrial Espionage
*The line where investigative techniques stop being legal and start being illegal is where competitive intelligence stops and industrial espionage starts.*
Motivation: to gain an advantage over the competition by stealing competitor's trade secrets.

### Privacy
Most people and many businesses are not willing to pay for it, unlike governments. In the US, individuals don't own the data about themselves, the EU has the *General Data Protection Regulation*. 
**Long-term privacy** is often not what's needed. We can relate the size of a key to the "lifetime of the secret"
We **do** need long-term privacy sometimes, some examples include:
- U.S. census data, the raw data must remain secret for 72 years.
- CIA mandates that the identities of spies remain secret until the spy is dead and all the spy's children are dead.
- Canadian census data remains secret forever.

### Confidentiality
Similar to privacy, but involves two parties. (Privacy of communications)
Typically accomplished through encryption. 

## Multi-level security
Often there is need for multilevel security; not everyone should be allowed to access all information. 
Instead, there may be different levels ("*clearances"*, e.g. public, secret, top secret) of information secrecy. 
Combination of access clearances and data levels is known as ***Bell-LaPadula security policy***.


A "(pseudo) **anonymizer**" strips identity from message, replaces with generated id, send to original destination with a different source id.

#### Types of Anonymity
- **Complete Anonymity**: Letter without a return address or anything identifiable
- **Pseudonymity**: think AA meeting where you're "Bob"
- Both types are hard in cyberspace: CPUs have serial numbers, as do printers and Office applications.

#### Medical anonymity
- Medical data is only useful if it's shared. (Don't get blood sample every time you see a doctor)
- However, it is very personal, and you don't want it out and about.
- HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accessibility Act) has standards for computerized medical records

