Unicity distance is the length of an original ciphertext needed to break the cipher by reducing the number of possible "spurious keys" to zero in a brute force attack. After trying every possible key, there should be only one solution.

Each character can convey $log_2(26) = 5.7$ bits of information, actual redundancy reduces this by 1.5 bits per character, so actual practical redundancy at D=3.2 bits per character.

Entropy of key space is $log_2$ of the number of keys, 
e.g. 
- 128  for key of 128 bits or 
- $log_2(26!)$ for substitution cipher.
$U=H(k)/D=88.4/3.2 = 28$ characters for substitution cipher

Unicity distance should be as large as possible, this can be achieved using compression before encryption

---And now ... technology--- slideshow

### Message Authentication Code (MAC)
MACs use a shared secret key, just like symmetric encryption algorithms
MACs do not protect privacy, but they can tell you if the message has been tampered with
Typically use some kind of *hash* function.

One-way hash functions, one way:
y = $f(x)$ should be simple to compute,
x = $f^{-1}(y)$ is infeasible or impossible to compute

#### Cryptographic Checksums
Mathematical function to generate a set of $k$ bits from a set of $n$ bits (where k <= b)
k is smaller than n except in unusual circumstances
used to check if message was changed

Example: ASCII parity bit
- ASCII has 7 bits, 8th bit is parity
- Even parity: even number of 1's

A->B
**Collision Attack**: Computational infeasible to find any two documents x, x' element of A such that they are different, but they have the same hashes.
	$x \neq x'$ ; $h(x) = h(x')$
	
**Birthday Attack**: Given one document, it is computationally infeasible to find a different document which as the same hash. (This is a LOT harder than a collision attack)

If two documents aren't the same, but the hashes are the same, the documents are a collision.
- Probability of collision is inversely proportional to the size of the hash.


#### Use of Keys in Checksums
- **Keyed cryptographic checksum**
	- AES in chaining mode: encipher message, use last *n* bits. Require
- **Keyless cryptographic checksum**
	- SHA-512, SHA-3, are examples
	- Algorithms for collision attacks exist for older ones (such as MD4, MD5, RIPEM, SHA-0, SHA-1)

HMAC combine hash with the key

MD5 has four possible functions, a different one is used in each round

In SHA1, the 160-bit (20byte) hash value is called a "message digest".

Problem: Attacker can intercept the message, change it and re-compute the hash
Defence: Make keyed cryptographic checksums from keyless cryptographic checksums


### Message Integrity
Messages are authentic:
1. Content of message has not been altered
2. Source of message is who/what you think it is
3. Message has not be replayed
4. Sequence of messages is maintained

A "message digest" can be computed by hashing the message with a secret key.

## Public Key Cryptography
Each participant has a public and a private key
- Public key known to EVERYONE
- Private key known to its owner only

Alice encrypts a message using Bob's public key, Bob decrypts the message using his private key.

"Security Services":
- **Confidentiality**
	- Only Bob can read the message
- **Authentication**
	- Only the owner of the private key knows it, so text enciphered with private key must have been generated by the owner
- **Integrity**
	- Enciphered letters cannot be changed undetectably without knowing private key
- **Non-repudiation**
	- Message enciphered with private key came form someone who knew it

Using two keys instead of one (asymmetric encryption) affects key distribution, confidentiality, and authentication procedures.
Requirements:
- Private-public key pair must be simple to generate
- Algorithm must be symmetric - encrypt with either private or public key, decrypt the other one (reasons to be disclosed later)
- Must be computationally infeasible to reconstruct the private key from the public key.
- Must be computationally infeasible to decipher the message using one key.

Diffie and Hellman first proposed public key cryptography
- RSA most widely implemented, key size tends to grow over the years
Elliptic-Curve Cryptography (ECC)
- More secure than RSA with smaller key sizes, widely used today.

Typically, very strong public key cryptography is used to communicate a key to then use public-key encryption (this is the "session key").

Authentication may use public-key cryptography
- Always sign first, then encipher.

#### Digital Signatures
Take a one-way hash of the message and signs it (encrypts it with private key)

Bob, upon receiving, decrypts the hash with Alice's public key (to make sure it comes from Alice) and recalculates the hash (to make sure no one tampered with the message)