
## Malware!

### Terminology:
- Virus: 
	- when executed, tries to replicate itself into other executable code. ("Infects code")
- Worm: 
	- Can run independently and can propagate a complete working version of itself onto other hosts on a network. May move through the internet by itself
- Logic Bomb
	- Program inserted into software by an intruder. Lies dormant until a condition is met, the program then triggers an unauthorized act. (Often part of a virus)
- Trojan horse
	- Software that appears to be useful, but also has a hidden and potentially malicious function that evades security. 
- Backdoor 
	- Any mechanisms that bypasses a normal security check; it may allow unauthorized access to functionality. (often made for testing)
- Mobile code
	- Software that can be shipped unchanged to a heterogeneous collection of platforms and execute with identical semantics
- Exploits
	- Code specific to a single vulnerability or set of vulnerabilities
- Downloaders
	- Program that installs other items on a machine that is under attack. Often sent via e-mail
- Auto-rooter
	- Malicious hacker tools used to break into new machines remotely. (for getting root (administrator level access)
- Kit (virus generator)
	- Set of tools for generating new viruses automatically
- Spammer Programs
	- Used to send large volumes of unwanted e-mail
- Flooders
	- Used to attack networked computer systems with a lot of traffic, DoS attacks.
- Keyloggers
	- Captures keystrokes
- Rootkit
	- Set of hacker tools used after attacker has broken into a computer system and gained root-level access.
- Zombie, Bot
	- Program stored on an infected machine that is activated to launch attacks on other machines
- Spyware
	- Software that collects information from a computer and transmits it  to another system.
- Adware
	- Advertising that is integrated into software. It can result in pop-up ads or redirection of a browser to a commercial site.

#### Classifications
Malware can be classified into two broad categories based on:
- How it propagates
	- Software vulnerabilities
	- Infection of existing executable or interpreted content by viruses
	- Social engineering 
- Actions or payloads it performs once a target is reached

Other distinctions:
- Does the malware replicate?
- Does it need a host program (e.g. virus) or is it independent (e.g. worms, trojans, bots)

**Payload** refers to the actions performed by malware once it reaches a target system can include:
- Corruption of system or data files
- Theft of service (make the system a zombie/bot)
- Theft of information (keylogging and spyware programs)
- Stealthing where the malware hides its presence on the system.


A "Blended attack" involves multiple methods of infection or propagation.


### Attack Kits
Massive industry, underground and government
Virus-creation toolkits began in the early 1990's. Now, non-experts can make viruses
These toolkits are often known as crimeware:
- Include a variety of propagation mechanism and payload modules that even novices can combine, select and deploy.
- Can easily be customized with the latest discovered vulnerabilities in order to exploit the window of opportunity between the publication of a weakness and the deployment of patches to close it.

### Attack Sources
Most dangerous attackers are organized and large.
These include politically motivated attackers:
- Organized crime
- Organizations that sell their services to companies and nations
- National government agencies

Large underground economy involving the:
- Sale of attack kits
- Access to compromised hosts
- And access to stolen information

#### Advanced Persistent Threat (APT)
- Have risen to prominence in recent years
- Persistent application of a wide variety of intrusion technologies and malware to selected targets (usually business or political)
- Characterized by:
	- Careful target selection
	- Persistent, stealthy, intrusion
	- Extended period attack

*Stuxnet* was a malicious computer worm uncovered in 2010, destroyed the nuclear centrifuges in Iran.


### Trojan Horses
Fit into one of three models:
1. Continues to perform the function of the original program and additionally performing a separate malicious activity
2. Continues to perform the original program, but modifies the original program to perform malicious activity (or to hide it)
3. Malicious function completely replaces the function of the original program

E.G. Thomson's Compiler inserts additional code when compiling code
E.G. Utilities that "claim" to be the latest antivirus scanner, or security update, for systems but are actually malicious.

On Unix, users have a UID represented by a 16 bit number.
UID's are linked to user names in /etc/passwd
*Superuser* is a user with special privileges and has UID 0 (User name *root*)
	This is used by OS for tasks like login, recording audit log, or access to I/O devices

Many programs in user use `setuid`, this may be to give you `root` permissions needed to check password files to login, etc.