from lecture:
## Malware Countermeasures
##### Prevention
1. Policy
2. Awareness
3. Vulnerability mitigation
4. Threat mitigation 

Elements of prevention:
- Keep things updated
- Reduce number of files any user can access (principle of least privilege)
- User awareness and training (to prevent social engineering)

##### Some Approaches (When prevention Fails)
Technical mechanisms for threat mitigation:
- Detection
- Identification
- Removal

Requirements for effective malware countermeasures:
- Generality
- Timeliness
- Resiliency
- Minimal DOS costs
- Transparency
- Global and local coverage

#### Host-Based Scanners
4 "generations" of antivirus software:
First:
- Simple
- Requires a "malware signature"
Second:
- Heuristic scanners
- Searching for probable malware instances
- Integrity checking
Third:
- Actively traps
- Memory-resident programs that identify malware by its actions.
Fourth:
- Full-feature protection
- Packages consisting of a variety of antivirus techniques used in conjunction.

**behaviours-blocking software**
- Integrates with the operating system of a host computer and monitors program behaviour in real time for malicious actions.
- Block actions *before* they have they have the chance to make changes
- Can block suspicious software in real time so it has an advantage over *fingerprinting* and *heuristics*



## Program Security

A "program security flaw" is unexpected behaviour caused by a program vulnerability. These can be derived from any kind of software fault. 
**Software Faults** include:
- Misunderstanding of programs requirements
- Error in coding or even error in typing.
- Being malicious or just sloppy.

Most common non-malicious errors that enable security breaches:
- Buffer Overflow
- Incomplete mediation
- Time-of-check to time-of-use errors

A data overflow either:
- Falls strictly within a data space OR
- Spills into an adjacent code area.

Memory overflow can overwrite:
- Some of your data (bad)
- An instruction of yours (worse)
- OS or critical applications (worst)

"Memory overflow attack on OS" 
- An attacker can place permanent code that is reactivated each time a machine is restarted.
- An attack may expose data (passwords or cryptographic keys)

**Privilege escalation** refers to executing attack code with higher system permissions than the current user (really, attacker acting as the user).

#### Incomplete Mediation (Checking)
- Validate all input, guard against user's fingers!
- If the user can change important data, assume they will for malicious reasons

### Time-of-check to time-of-use errors
- Errors of scheduling at the level of operating system
- Instructions which appear adjacent may not be executed consecutively
- Sequences of instructions which check the access rights must be executed **atomically** (without OS interruption)

### Stack and Heap
Stack at the "top" of memory and grows "down",
Heap at the "bottom" of memory and grows "up".
"Heap" is for dynamic data.
