
- Random Experiments
- Sample spaces and events
- set operations and Venn Diagrams
- Counting techniques
- Axioms of probability
- Practice problems

**Random Experiment**: An experiment that can result in different outcomes even though it is repeated in the same manner every time.

#### Sample Spaces: 
- Outcomes of a dice roll: S = {1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6} (**Discrete**: finite or countable infinite set)
- Possible duration of a phone-call in minutes: S = $[0, +\infty)$ (**Continuous**: Interval of real numbers)
We're talking about sums ($\Sigma$) with discrete sample spaces and integrals ($\int$) with continuous sample spaces

A discrete sample space without limit may be equal to $\mathbb{N}$

#### Set operations and Venn Diagrams:
- Union (think of summation, OR)
- Intersection (think of multiplication, AND)
- Complement
Sets A, B are **mutually exclusive** when $A\cap B = \emptyset$
We often use Venn diagrams to describe the relationships between events of a sample space.
Remember the laws:
- Associative
- Distributive
- Double complement
- DeMorgan's Law: $(A\cap B)' = A' \cup B'\ ;\ (A\cup B)' = A'\cap B'$  

PP (Practice Problem):
Four bits are transmitted, each bit is distorted or not. Let $A_i$ denotes the event that the i-th bit is distorted, i=1, ..., 4
a) Describe sample space of the experiment
- $d$: distorted, $o$: not distorted, therefore, a possible outcome could be: dddo
- $\therefore$ there are $2^4=16$ possible outcomes
b) Are the $A_i$'s mutually exclusive?
- To illustrate, $A_1 = \{dooo, dood, ... dddd\}$ 
- $dddd \in A_2$ and $dddd \in A_1$, this is a sufficient counterexample.
c) Describe the outcome in each of the following events
 i) $A_i'$
 - All outcomes that the first bit isn't distorted.
ii) $(A_1 \cap A_2) \cup (A_3 \cap A_4)$
- (First and second bit is distorted) OR the (third and fourth bit are distorted)

### Counting techniques
Finding how many outcomes exist within the sample space (or an event). These are discrete math problems. Note that "events" are subsets of the sample space.

Say, a car may come:
- With/without an automatic transmission
- With/without sunroof
- With one of three choices of a stereo system
- With one of four exterior colours
How many different vehicles can be produced?
2 x 2 x 3 x 4 = 48

We can express problems like this as a tree, where each "level" diverges on a different option (child node for each option)

**The Multiplication Rule** (AKA Multiplication Counting (MC) Rule)
- Assume that an operation can be described as a sequence of k-steps, and the number of ways of completing step 1 is $n_1$, and the number of ways completing step 2 is $n_2$ and so on
- Then the total number of ways of completing the operation is $n_1 \times n_2 \times ... \times n_k$

#### Permutations and Combinations
Let $S = \{x_1, x_2,...,x_n\}$ be a set with $n$ elements
An **r-combination** of S is a subset of *r distinct elements* of $S$ 
An **r-permutation** of a set S is an ordered list of *r distinct elements* of S. A **permutation** of $S$ is an *n-permutation of* $S$

Given $S=\{a,b,c\}$
There are 3 2-combinations and 6 2-permutations of $S$

**Permutation Formula**
$n! = n \times (n-1) \times (n-2) \times ... \times\ 2 \times 1$
Let S be a set with *n-elements*, then the number of all possible *r-permutations of S* is:
$$
P^n_r = \frac{n!}{(n-r)!}
$$
Corollary: Let S be a set with n-elements, the number of all possible permutations of S is $n!$

Number of 2-permutations of the set $S = \{a,b,c\}$ is $\frac{3!}{1!} = 6$

**Combinations Formula**:
$$
C_r^n = \binom{n}{r} = \frac{n!}{r!(n-r)!}
$$
Number of 2-combinations of the set $S = \{a,b,c\}$ is $\frac{3!}{1!2!} = 3$


"More Permutations and Combinations"
Suppose we have $n=n_1 + n_2 + ... + n_k$ items, where there are $n_1, n_2,...n_k$ that are identical. The number of ways to permute them is $\frac{n!}{n_1!n_2!...n_k!}$ #CBH just to review
E.g. A bar code has 4 thick, 3 medium and 2 thin lines. If each ordering of the nine lines represents a different label, how many different labels can be generated using this scheme?
K possible part labels is equal to the number of permutations of 9 items, where there are 4, 3, 2 that are identical, thus we have that: 
$$
K=\frac{9!}{4!3!2!} = 1260
$$

PPs:
There are 5 different roads that lead from your house to your significant other's house, and then 4 different roads that lead to the movie theatre. How many different routes can you take to get to the movies?
Simple multiplication counting rule question, 4 routes then multiply by 5 routes. 20

How many license-plates with 3 letters (A-Z) followed by 3(0-9) digits exist?
Multiplication rule: 26 x 26 x 26 x 10 x 10 x 10 = $26^3 \times 10^3$

How many different ways an 6 different books be arranged on a shelf
Exactly 6 factorial. Simply the permutations of 6 elements.

How many ways can the letters of the word "STATISTICS" be rearranged
3 Ss
3 Ts
1 A
2 Is
1 C
Total: 10
Again a permutation problem, but some of them are identical, so, 
$$
\frac{n!}{3!3!2!}
$$
